examples/README.md, before:

# StackOne AI SDK Examples

This directory contains practical examples demonstrating how to use the StackOne AI SDK across different use cases and integrations.

## Quick Start

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/StackOneHQ/stackone-ai-node.git
```

### 2. Authentication

Set your StackOne API key as an environment variable:

```bash
export STACKONE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Or create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
STACKONE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Optional: Set an OpenAI API key as an environment variable:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Or create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

### 3. Configure Account IDs

Update the account IDs in [`constants.ts`](./constants.ts) with your actual integration account IDs:

```typescript
export const ACCOUNT_IDS = {
  // Human Resources Information System
  HRIS: "your_hris_account_id",

  // Applicant Tracking System
  ATS: "your_ats_account_id",

  // Customer Relationship Management
  CRM: "your_crm_account_id",

  // Document Management System
  DOCUMENTS: "your_documents_account_id",

  // Test account IDs (used in examples that don't make real API calls)
  TEST: {
    VALID: "test_account_id",
    OVERRIDE: "test_account_id_override",
    DIRECT: "test_account_id_direct",
    INVALID: "invalid_test_account_id",
  },
};
```

## Running Examples

### Run Individual Examples

```bash
# Run a specific example
bun run examples/ai-sdk-integration.ts

# Or with Node.js
npx tsx examples/ai-sdk-integration.ts
```

### Run All Examples

```bash
# Test all examples
bun test examples/
```

## Examples Overview

### Core Integration Examples

#### [`index.ts`](./index.ts) - Quickstart Guide

Basic example showing how to initialize the toolset and make your first API call.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Yes
- **Key Features**: Basic tool usage, employee listing

#### [`ai-sdk-integration.ts`](./ai-sdk-integration.ts) - AI SDK Integration

Demonstrates integration with Vercel's AI SDK for building AI agents.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Via AI agent
- **Key Features**: AI SDK tools conversion, automated agent workflows

#### [`openai-integration.ts`](./openai-integration.ts) - OpenAI Integration

Shows how to use StackOne tools with OpenAI's function calling.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Via OpenAI function calls
- **Key Features**: OpenAI tools format, function calling

### Configuration Examples

#### [`account-id-usage.ts`](./account-id-usage.ts) - Account ID Management

Demonstrates different ways to set and manage account IDs.

- **Account ID**: TEST (multiple)
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Account ID precedence, override patterns

#### [`custom-base-url.ts`](./custom-base-url.ts) - Custom Base URL

Shows how to use custom base URLs for development or self-hosted instances.

- **Account ID**: None
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Custom API endpoints, development setup

### Advanced Features

#### [`experimental-document-handling.ts`](./experimental-document-handling.ts) - Document Processing

**⚠️ EXPERIMENTAL**: Advanced document handling with schema overrides.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Schema transformation, file processing, multi-source documents

#### [`filters.ts`](./filters.ts) - Advanced Filtering

Demonstrates complex filtering and query parameter serialization.

- **Account ID**: TEST
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Deep object serialization, complex filters, proxy parameters

#### [`human-in-the-loop.ts`](./human-in-the-loop.ts) - Human Validation

Shows how to implement human-in-the-loop workflows for validation.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Conditional
- **Key Features**: Manual approval workflows, UI integration patterns

### OpenAPI Toolset Examples

#### [`openapi-toolset.ts`](./openapi-toolset.ts) - OpenAPI Integration

Demonstrates loading and using OpenAPI specifications directly.

- **Account ID**: None
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: File loading, URL loading, OpenAPI parsing

### Planning Module (Beta)

#### [`planning.ts`](./planning.ts) - Workflow Planning

**🚧 CLOSED BETA**: Advanced workflow planning with StackOne's planning agent.

- **Account ID**: ATS, HRIS
- **API Calls**: Planning API
- **Key Features**: Multi-step workflows, caching, complex business processes

### Error Handling

#### [`error-handling.ts`](./error-handling.ts) - Error Management

Comprehensive error handling patterns and best practices.

- **Account ID**: TEST (invalid)
- **API Calls**: Intentionally failing calls
- **Key Features**: Error types, validation, graceful degradation

## Example Categories

### 🟢 Production Ready

Examples that are stable and recommended for production use:

- `index.ts`
- `ai-sdk-integration.ts`
- `openai-integration.ts`
- `account-id-usage.ts`
- `custom-base-url.ts`
- `filters.ts`
- `error-handling.ts`
- `openapi-toolset.ts`

### 🟡 Advanced/Experimental

Examples showcasing advanced or experimental features:

- `experimental-document-handling.ts` (⚠️ API may change)
- `human-in-the-loop.ts`

### 🔵 Beta/Limited Access

Examples requiring special access:

- `planning.ts` (🚧 Closed beta only)

## Common Patterns

### Dry Run for Testing

Most examples support dry run mode to inspect requests without making API calls:

```typescript
const result = await tool.execute(params, { dryRun: true });
console.log(result.url); // The URL that would be called
console.log(result.method); // HTTP method
console.log(result.headers); // Request headers
console.log(result.body); // Request body
```

### Error Handling

All production examples include proper error handling:

```typescript
try {
  const result = await tool.execute(params);
  // Handle success
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof StackOneAPIError) {
    console.error("API Error:", error.statusCode, error.responseBody);
  } else {
    console.error("Unexpected error:", error.message);
  }
}
```

### Account ID Patterns

Examples demonstrate different ways to provide account IDs:

```typescript
// 1. At toolset initialization
const toolset = new StackOneToolSet({ accountId: "account_123" });

// 2. When getting tools
const tools = toolset.getStackOneTools("hris_*", "account_123");

// 3. Directly on individual tools
tool.setAccountId("account_123");
```

## Testing Examples

The examples include a comprehensive test suite:

```bash
# Run all example tests
bun test examples/

# Run with verbose output
bun test examples/ --verbose

# Run specific test
bun test examples/examples.spec.ts
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Authentication Errors**: Ensure `STACKONE_API_KEY` is set correctly
2. **Account ID Errors**: Update account IDs in `constants.ts` with your actual values
3. **Network Errors**: Check if you're behind a proxy or firewall
4. **TypeScript Errors**: Ensure you're using compatible Node.js and TypeScript versions

### Getting Help

- Check the [main README](../README.md) for general setup instructions
- Review the [StackOne documentation](https://docs.stackone.com)
- Open an issue on GitHub for bug reports or feature requests

## Contributing

When adding new examples:

1. Follow the existing naming convention
2. Add the example to this README
3. Include proper error handling
4. Add TypeScript types
5. Test with the examples test suite
6. Update `constants.ts` if new account IDs are needed

## License

These examples are part of the StackOne AI SDK and are subject to the same license terms.

Commit message:

feat: introduce MCP-backed dynamic tools (#114)
* chore(deps): add mcp sdk

* feat: fetchTool

* feat: headers for mcp

* chore(deps): add stackone client sdk dependency

* feat: execute stackone tools via actions rpc

* test: verify fetchTools against hono mcp

* Refactor execute config handling

* test: move mock

* test: update snapshot

* Add inline comments for execution config changes

* Tighten test mock execute config typing

* Document execute config union

* fix: fallback to env api key for actions client

* docs: document mcp-powered tools

* Revert "docs: document mcp-powered tools"

This reverts commit 0797d5e7caae99cc0c356415e112e6ad27466db5.

* docs: explain fetchTools usage

examples/README.md, after:

# StackOne AI SDK Examples

This directory contains practical examples demonstrating how to use the StackOne AI SDK across different use cases and integrations.

## Quick Start

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/StackOneHQ/stackone-ai-node.git
```

### 2. Authentication

Set your StackOne API key as an environment variable:

```bash
export STACKONE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Or create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
STACKONE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Optional: Set an OpenAI API key as an environment variable:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

Or create a `.env` file in the project root:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

### 3. Configure Account IDs

Update the account IDs in [`constants.ts`](./constants.ts) with your actual integration account IDs:

```typescript
export const ACCOUNT_IDS = {
  // Human Resources Information System
  HRIS: "your_hris_account_id",

  // Applicant Tracking System
  ATS: "your_ats_account_id",

  // Customer Relationship Management
  CRM: "your_crm_account_id",

  // Document Management System
  DOCUMENTS: "your_documents_account_id",

  // Test account IDs (used in examples that don't make real API calls)
  TEST: {
    VALID: "test_account_id",
    OVERRIDE: "test_account_id_override",
    DIRECT: "test_account_id_direct",
    INVALID: "invalid_test_account_id",
  },
};
```

## Running Examples

### Run Individual Examples

```bash
# Run a specific example
bun run examples/ai-sdk-integration.ts

# Or with Node.js
npx tsx examples/ai-sdk-integration.ts
```

### Run All Examples

```bash
# Test all examples
bun test examples/
```

## Examples Overview

### Core Integration Examples

#### [`index.ts`](./index.ts) - Quickstart Guide

Basic example showing how to initialize the toolset and make your first API call.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Yes
- **Key Features**: Basic tool usage, employee listing

#### [`ai-sdk-integration.ts`](./ai-sdk-integration.ts) - AI SDK Integration

Demonstrates integration with Vercel's AI SDK for building AI agents.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Via AI agent
- **Key Features**: AI SDK tools conversion, automated agent workflows

#### [`openai-integration.ts`](./openai-integration.ts) - OpenAI Integration

Shows how to use StackOne tools with OpenAI's function calling.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Via OpenAI function calls
- **Key Features**: OpenAI tools format, function calling

### Configuration Examples

#### [`account-id-usage.ts`](./account-id-usage.ts) - Account ID Management

Demonstrates different ways to set and manage account IDs.

- **Account ID**: TEST (multiple)
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Account ID precedence, override patterns

#### [`custom-base-url.ts`](./custom-base-url.ts) - Custom Base URL

Shows how to use custom base URLs for development or self-hosted instances.

- **Account ID**: None
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Custom API endpoints, development setup

#### [`fetch-tools.ts`](./fetch-tools.ts) - Live Catalog Loading

Illustrates how to pull the latest tool catalog from StackOne and execute a tool with the fetched definitions.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Yes (requires valid credentials)
- **Key Features**: Catalog refresh, zero local specs, production-style execution

### Advanced Features

#### [`experimental-document-handling.ts`](./experimental-document-handling.ts) - Document Processing

**⚠️ EXPERIMENTAL**: Advanced document handling with schema overrides.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Schema transformation, file processing, multi-source documents

#### [`filters.ts`](./filters.ts) - Advanced Filtering

Demonstrates complex filtering and query parameter serialization.

- **Account ID**: TEST
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: Deep object serialization, complex filters, proxy parameters

#### [`human-in-the-loop.ts`](./human-in-the-loop.ts) - Human Validation

Shows how to implement human-in-the-loop workflows for validation.

- **Account ID**: HRIS
- **API Calls**: Conditional
- **Key Features**: Manual approval workflows, UI integration patterns

### OpenAPI Toolset Examples

#### [`openapi-toolset.ts`](./openapi-toolset.ts) - OpenAPI Integration

Demonstrates loading and using OpenAPI specifications directly.

- **Account ID**: None
- **API Calls**: No (dry run)
- **Key Features**: File loading, URL loading, OpenAPI parsing

### Planning Module (Beta)

#### [`planning.ts`](./planning.ts) - Workflow Planning

**🚧 CLOSED BETA**: Advanced workflow planning with StackOne's planning agent.

- **Account ID**: ATS, HRIS
- **API Calls**: Planning API
- **Key Features**: Multi-step workflows, caching, complex business processes

### Error Handling

#### [`error-handling.ts`](./error-handling.ts) - Error Management

Comprehensive error handling patterns and best practices.

- **Account ID**: TEST (invalid)
- **API Calls**: Intentionally failing calls
- **Key Features**: Error types, validation, graceful degradation

## Example Categories

### 🟢 Production Ready

Examples that are stable and recommended for production use:

- `index.ts`
- `ai-sdk-integration.ts`
- `openai-integration.ts`
- `account-id-usage.ts`
- `custom-base-url.ts`
- `filters.ts`
- `error-handling.ts`
- `openapi-toolset.ts`

### 🟡 Advanced/Experimental

Examples showcasing advanced or experimental features:

- `experimental-document-handling.ts` (⚠️ API may change)
- `human-in-the-loop.ts`

### 🔵 Beta/Limited Access

Examples requiring special access:

- `planning.ts` (🚧 Closed beta only)

## Common Patterns

### Dry Run for Testing

Most examples support dry run mode to inspect requests without making API calls:

```typescript
const result = await tool.execute(params, { dryRun: true });
console.log(result.url); // The URL that would be called
console.log(result.method); // HTTP method
console.log(result.headers); // Request headers
console.log(result.body); // Request body
```

### Error Handling

All production examples include proper error handling:

```typescript
try {
  const result = await tool.execute(params);
  // Handle success
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof StackOneAPIError) {
    console.error("API Error:", error.statusCode, error.responseBody);
  } else {
    console.error("Unexpected error:", error.message);
  }
}
```

### Account ID Patterns

Examples demonstrate different ways to provide account IDs:

```typescript
// 1. At toolset initialization
const toolset = new StackOneToolSet({ accountId: "account_123" });

// 2. When getting tools
const tools = toolset.getStackOneTools("hris_*", "account_123");

// 3. Directly on individual tools
tool.setAccountId("account_123");
```

## Testing Examples

The examples include a comprehensive test suite:

```bash
# Run all example tests
bun test examples/

# Run with verbose output
bun test examples/ --verbose

# Run specific test
bun test examples/examples.spec.ts
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Authentication Errors**: Ensure `STACKONE_API_KEY` is set correctly
2. **Account ID Errors**: Update account IDs in `constants.ts` with your actual values
3. **Network Errors**: Check if you're behind a proxy or firewall
4. **TypeScript Errors**: Ensure you're using compatible Node.js and TypeScript versions

### Getting Help

- Check the [main README](../README.md) for general setup instructions
- Review the [StackOne documentation](https://docs.stackone.com)
- Open an issue on GitHub for bug reports or feature requests

## Contributing

When adding new examples:

1. Follow the existing naming convention
2. Add the example to this README
3. Include proper error handling
4. Add TypeScript types
5. Test with the examples test suite
6. Update `constants.ts` if new account IDs are needed

## License

These examples are part of the StackOne AI SDK and are subject to the same license terms.
